.TH rcpconv 3 "October 1999" local "MIDI application"
.SH NAME
rcpconv \- converts RCP / R36 file into Standard MIDI file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include "rcpconv.h"
.sp
.BI "long *rcpconv(unsigned char *"data ,
.BI "              long " length,
.BI "              unsigned char **"smf,
.BI "              unsigned char *"copyright );
.sp
.BI "long rcpconv_with_notice( unsigned char *"data,
.BI "                          long " length,
.BI "                          unsigned char **"smf,
.BI "                          unsigned char *"copyright,
.BI "                          unsigned char *"command_name,
.BI "                          unsigned char *"file_name,
.BI "                          unsigned char *"date );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Pointer to RCP data.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Length (bytes) of RCP data.
.IP \fIsmf\fP 1i
Destination of conversion.
.IP \fIcopyright\fP 1i
Copyright notice. If you don't need, specify NULL.
.IP \fIcommand_name\fP 1i
Converter's command name.
.IP \fIfile_name\fP 1i
Filename of original RCP file.
.IP \fIdate\fP 1i
Timestamp of original RCP file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rcpconv
converts a RCP / R36 file into SMF file.
.sp
.I rcpconv_with_notice
has almost same function. But it can
bury some notification messages about the original file,
file name, timestamp, length, and converter command name.
These message is buried with text meta event (0xff 0x01).
.sp
They also bury a copyright notice with copyright meta event
(0xff 0x03). If you are copyright-concious, use it practical.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.I rcpconv
and
.I rcpconv_with_notice
also return the size of converted
SMF data. If the conversion failed, it returns negative value.
.SH RCP / R36 FORMAT
RCP / R36 / G18 / G36 is a sort of MIDI sequence format. These format
is produced from some sequencers released from Come-On Music's
products, Recomposer series ( These are only famous in Japan).  Since
these format is very popular in Japan, many MIDI sequence data based
on these format instead of Standard MIDI file (SMF) are existing.
There are even some free software sequencers those are capable handle
these format.
.SH SEE ALSO
rcpconv(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daisuke Nagano <breeze.nagano@nifty.ne.jp>


