.TH rcpconv 1 "October 1999" local "MIDI application"
.SH NAME
rcpconv \- converts RCP / R36 file into Standard MIDI file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcpconv
.RI [ options ]
.RI file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rcpconv
converts RCP / R36 file into Standard MIDI file ( SMF )
with reserving many of original informations ( Title, Memo, Beat,
Key and others ).
.PP
It reads RCP / R36 file from specified file or STDIN, and writes the 
result SMF file to STDOUT (or specified file).
It also can set `copyright` meta message of output SMF file with
command-line options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-outfile <filename>
Output to specified file.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Be verbose.
.TP
.B \-\-copyright <msg>
Set copyright meta event as <msg>.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message.

.SH FILENAME
If no <filename> is specified in command line,  it reads from STDIN.
The result of convert is written to STDOUT.
If you want to write it into particular file, use `\-o` option.

.SH RCP / R36 FORMAT
RCP / R36 / G18 / G36 is a sort of MIDI sequence format. These format
is produced from some sequencers released from Come-On Music's
products, Recomposer series ( These are only famous in Japan).  Since
these format is very popular in Japan, many MIDI sequence data based
on these format instead of Standard MIDI file (SMF) are existing.
There are even some free software sequencers those are capable handle
these format.

.SH SEE ALSO
rcpconv(3)
.SH AUTHORS
Daisuke Nagano <breeze.nagano@nifty.ne.jp>

